we're going to bring in Amed Halal he's
the director of mina region at the
global Council it's a strategic advisory
firm thanks very much indeed for being
with us there was always a lot of
speculation that if the Netanyahu
Coalition felt that it wasn't achieving
the goals that it had originally set out
that it could push the military to
intensify the action we're certainly
reporting on a lot of what's been
happening over the last few hours or so
that seems to be an intensification
what's your assessment of what's going
on in Gaza and the West Bank
well partly the Israelis don't have a
finite objective for the war in Israel
and in in Hamas against Hamas in Gaza um
you can't extinguish all Hamas
operatives and Fighters they are in the
in the tens of thousands they are
entrenched with the civilian population
and when you when you fail to articulate
your goals in combat you can fail in
everything so what Israel is doing
intensifying its bombing campaigns in
the North in the south in the center is
sending a message to domestic audience
that we are big we are strong we will
not be defeated by a small non-state
actor and you have to go back to why
this is an existential War for Israel um
the attacks of October 7 threw into
question the very idea that an
independent Homeland for Jews is the
safest place for Jews to live so Israel
from its point of view has to attack in
this way they have to achieve what they
view as decisive military Victory their
security Doctrine since the days of
Dorian rests on three pillars one is
deterrence two is early warning and
three is decisive military Victory when
the first two faltered they fell back to
their third pillar of the traditional
security Doctrine which is to um uh
completely neutralize the military
capability of the enemy and destroy the
enemy's resolve to continue fighting
and so that is the current track they
are
taking so to to expand on that because
we heard from y of galand who talked to
the keset yesterday and he was making
the point that uh Israel is coming under
attack on several fronts now we know
that Israel is is dealing with uh what
it perceives is a threat from Hezbollah
but it is also dealing with a a longer
term threat as it perceives it from Iran
as well and of course we had the killing
of um a senior Iranian military figure
uh by Israeli forces in Syria just the
last 24 hours that in and of itself
seems like an a somewhat to somebody
who's looking at it from the outside a
somewhat provocative thing to do given
the circumstances talk to us about how
all of that is tying into this this what
you're telling us about this do this
appeal to a domestic
audience they're trying to message to
the Israeli public that this Menace Iran
that is ultimately behind all these
non-state actors that encircle Israel
today that we're taking the fight to
them and of course it's a significant
escalation taking out the top Iranian
military adviser uh the irgc um in in
Syria um this person was an ally of
kasum sumani who is the venerated leader
of the rgsc that America took out in in
2020 in uh in Iraq but we have to take a
take a step back a little bit and think
about
Iran's expansion in the region Iran has
been the single greatest beneficiary of
all the regional Wars that have happened
since America invaded Iraq they have
been able to build up the capabilities
of its Shia proxies in Iraq um an
example being
kab and in in in in Lebanon creating a
front there in Northern uh Israel and
the hthis in in Yemen and the Assad
regime in Syria so they've created what
they''re calling an axis of resistance
and this is how they project their power
and this is how they ensure the
continuity of the Islamic Republic for
them it's an ideology that their claim
to leadership in the Islamic world is
through these uh uh proxies and
appearing to the Arab Street to the
Muslim street that they are the only
state that's actually doing anything in
a concrete way to help Hamas through
rhetoric through the support financial
support training Hamas operatives and
Hamas
leaders um and it's for them
strategically a welcome distraction from
the instability that they the regime has
been facing domestically they have been
rocked by one protest movement after
after another recently over the
treatment of of of women and uh freedoms
and uh the killing in police custody of
of a woman who wasn't wearing the hijab
um so this for them is is projecting
power and it's ensuring regime
continuity and stability um of course
it's a provocation and Iran will find a
way to respond to Israel um and it
already is already partially blockading
Israel uh through the hois who are um
harassing vessels in the South Red Sea
and uh preventing manufactured goods
fuel chemicals from reaching Israel uh
through the Red
Sea given the balance of power that
you're describing there who do you think
is the greater threat to each other
Israel to Iran or Iran to
Israel well I think the statements of
the defense minister um tells you a lot
I me they are fighting a multi- Arena
war in in in seven
jurisdictions and um Iran can can have
plausible deniability that it isn't
necessarily um in a war against another
state they are um supporting proxies
that is well known and so they have
leverage they have greater leverage than
the Israelis the Israelis are engaged in
a full out war in in Gaza they have
hundreds of thousands of Israelis who
have been displaced from the north of
the country they are not able to go back
because Hezbollah is um engaged in a low
intensity war with them through missiles
and Rockets and of course so so the
short answer is that Iran simply has
more leverage um uh and more more attack
points against Israel than than vice
versa they let's I want to bring you
back to the focus on Israel because
there's a lot of speculation that
Benjamin netanyahu's own political
future is tied in with the the duration
of the war how much do you think that is
going to influ influence what we see and
the over the the coming weeks possibly
months according to to the netan Yoo
Coalition and also how that will play
into the the nature of the conflict as
it progresses over that time yeah um
Netanyahu is held responsible by the
Israeli public for the greatest National
trauma since the founding of the Jewish
State uh this conflict is often compared
to Yum kipor in
1973 but it's much worse in actual fact
um that war was waged by two State
actors Egypt and Syria with two
organized armies this is a non-state
actor Hamas ostensibly much weaker
without an organized Army it is a
militia it is a militant group um this
is humiliating for Netanyahu it destroys
his legacy as Mr security the strong man
that he has branded himself as and the
Israeli public are are Furious and they
are frustrated that uh their security
appus apparatus let them down and that
they are unable to kill the upper
echelons of Hamas leadership in the form
of U Yar and Muhammad so there are no
clear winds yet in this in this um uh
military campaign for Israel if
Devastation and the images of
Devastation and and and atrocity is um
is how they quantify military Victory
then then they have that but in actual
fact strategically they haven't moved
the dial yet so um in terms of Israel
and netanyahu's political future it was
already in jeopardy before this war he
was undergoing um a Judicial overhaul
that would curtail the powers of the
Supreme Court which launched the biggest
protest movement in in Israel's um
history and of course the failure of
intelligence the failure of preparedness
um in October 7th would um seal his
political future um and open him up to
investigations or already corruption
investigations before October 7 but open
up open him up to an accounting for
these Dreadful failures of of Israeli
intelligence and security uh and so he's
he's extremely in Jeopardy and the
continuity of this war serves him well
am H we appreciate it thank you very
much indeed for being with us thank you